ISPN-10604 Eviction and Expiration Docs (#7809)
infinispan/infinispan: documentation/src/main/asciidoc/topics/con_expiration_overview.adoc

[id='how_expiration_works-{context}']
= How Expiration Works

> By default, `Cache.put()` creates immortal entries. With expiration, `Cache.put()` creates mortal entries with lifespans and maximum idle times.

Reviewer: I don't know if we need this blurb or not.

When you configure expiration, {brandname} stores keys with metadata that
determines when entries expire.

* Lifespan uses a `creation` timestamp and the value for the `lifespan` configuration property.
* Maximum idle uses a `last used` timestamp and the value for the `max-idle` configuration property.

{brandname} checks if lifespan or maximum idle metadata is set and then
compares the values with the current time.

If `(creation + lifespan > currentTime)` or `(lastUsed + maxIdle > currentTime)` then {brandname} detects that the entry is expired.

> Expiration occurs whenever entries are accessed or iterated on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expiration occurs whenever entries are accessed or found by the expiration reaper.
```

For example, `k1` reaches the maximum idle time and a client makes a
`Cache.get(k1)` request. In this case, {brandname} detects that the entry is

> expired and removes it. The `Cache.get()` call does not return.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expired and removes it. The `Cache.get()` will return `null`.
```

> //dnaro: contradicting info here. does this apply with local cache stores only?

Reviewer: So technically this is a bit different based on if it is a store vs a loader. Technically a loader would still load the value if it expired. The vast majority of cases are a store though.

Author: @wburns does this mean expiration doesn't work with cache loaders? should we mention that?

Reviewer: No, it does work just fine.  You have to think of a loader vs a store differently. A Loader can only load values into memory from an external location. A store can update this external location. Thus an expiration cannot write to a Loader, however it can remove the in memory contents. We have use cases where a user wants to load from a Loader and have expiration so the value is only so stale for example.

{brandname} first removes entries from the data container and then from the
cache store, if configured.

[NOTE]
====
{brandname} adds expiration metadata as `long` primitive data types to cache entries.

If you configure lifespan expiration, {brandname} adds only the corresponding
metadata and likewise for maximum idle. If you configure both lifespan and
maximum idle expiration, {brandname} adds all metadata to keys.

> `long` primitive data types are eight bytes in size. If you configure either

Reviewer: I am not sure if we need to go into this much detail about the sizes of the objects and such here.
